---
path: "/2006/10/26/where-have-i-been-html/" 
date: "2006-10-26T07:36:00+00:00" 
title: Where have I been???
tags:
  - hungary
  - slovakia

---
Its been about 6 weeks since I last posted anything here. Well, for the last week I have been in my bed&#8230;.sleeping&#8230;.trying to get rid of this damned cough. I have heard from a few others who had roughly the same symptoms: unproductive cough, total exhaustion, ravenous hunger. Its a bizarre sickness. Every time I lie down, I start coughing. As soon as I get up, I stop. Breathing deeply seems to stop the coughing too, but that seems to cause hyperventilation. I am stuck. Well, I was until I saw (virtually) a doctor.

I started coughing in Budapest early last week. At first I thought it was nothing. There was no fever and it was an occasional cough. After taking the hydrofoil along the Danube up to Bratislava, then a shared taxi ride to Piestany, Slovakia, it started getting a bit worse. That first night in Piestany I didn&#8217;t get much sleep, mostly because I was thinking of the big-ass bugs that were living on the curtains in my hotel room, hoping they wouldn&#8217;t migrate to my nice warm bed. Day 1 of the class seemed to go OK, and then I moved to a different hotel which was far nicer. But that night&#8217;s sleep wasn&#8217;t much better. Thats when the coughing really started.

Day 2 of the class was tough and the third day was exhausting. By that night I was really starting to get tired, both because of the class and the fact that I was getting so little sleep. Alain (my host) and I wandered through the gorgeous grounds of the old spa in Piestany while sucking through a boxful of Strepsils cough drops. This is really a place that deserves a return visit&#8230;when I recover.

For the two hour taxi ride the next day from Piestany to Vienna, I managed to keep myself relatively quiet by guzzling two liters of water and going through a few more Strepsils. But the few hours in the departure lounge then a couple more on the KLM flight to Amsterdam made the cough even worse. I could see the woman next to me was not exactly pleased to have me as a seat mate. By 6PM that night I was home but not feeling much better. And as much as I tried to go to sleep, the cough wouldn&#8217;t let me. Every time I lay down, I had to get up to stop the coughing. Finally at around 4AM I gave up and went downstairs to try to find a solution.

For a local, this wouldn&#8217;t be a problem. They just contact their family doctor and thats it. I am not from around here. In fact, I keep moving around so I don&#8217;t really have a family doctor. I have insurance in the Netherlands, but I haven&#8217;t gotten around to picking a doctor or setting anything up. So I took out my Avero Achmea insurance card and started calling the phone numbers listed. The first was just a recording and was just in Dutch. I think it said we are closed, call back Monday. The second was answered but it turned out that it was only for international emergencies. If I was still in Piestany, she could help me, but because I was in Amsterdam, I would have to wait till Monday. Ugh.

Soon after I moved here I picked up a few books targeted at expats in the Netherlands. So I flipped through them looking for a health section. Once of them pointed to a service called <a href="http://access-nl.org/">Access NL</a>. If you are an expat in the Netherlands, visit this site. Keep it in your favorites. It may become important. Looking around on their site, I found their listing of <a href="http://access-nl.org/our_services/useful_numbers.htm" class="broken_link">Important and Useful Phone Numbers</a>. There is even a PDF version of the phone list which I have now printed and taped to my desk. One of the first numbers is for a 24 doctor service in Amsterdam. I called it around 7:30AM.

After giving them my info, I got a call back 15 minutes later. I spoke with a GP who told me I had some sort of virus which is going around that doesn&#8217;t respond to antibiotics. The best course of action was simply some variant of codeine to make it possible to sleep. The problem was that if he initiated a prescription, it would be handled by a pharmacy in North Amsterdam, which could be delivered but it would take several hours. An alternative would be to wait till 8 when the next shift starts and they could work with a pharmacy on Leidsestraat a couple blocks away from me. That sounded better to me too. So I called back and within 15 minutes I had a prescription prepared for me that would be available for pickup when the pharmacy opened.

This was all without actually seeing anyone. So at 11 I was able to go to the pharmacy to pick up my codeine. First I was shocked at how cheap the meds were: just over 6 euros for 5 tablets. I expected it to be much more. Then I was shocked that insurance covered it all&#8230;.no co-pay, no deductible. As soon as I got home I took one and after 45 minutes of the usual coughing I managed to get to sleep. Later that night I took another and slept till 2 or 3 the next afternoon. Over the last few days I have taken 4 tablets and seen only the covers of my bed for most of that time. Sleep is good and I can&#8217;t seem to get enough of it. I am still exhausted but I can see a full recovery coming soon. Hopefully this is before the class I am supposed to teach next week&#8230;.
