---
path: "/2005/11/06/2005116finding-the-standard-americanenglish-breakfast-html/" 
date: "2005-11-06T10:00:00+00:00" 
title: Finding the standard American/English breakfast
---
I am really enjoying the food here in Amsterdam. The choices are vast and even what some have called traditional Dutch is really wonderful. Though I haven&rsquo;t had any of these dishes that are just mashed potatoes with stuff mixed in. But despite the selection of food being wonderful, there is one thing I haven&rsquo;t quite found yet. That is a place that serves a real American or English breakfast that I crave on a Saturday or Sunday morning. You know, the kind of breakfast I could go into any diner-type place in the US to get. My favorite was always the 5&ndash;Spot in Seattle, or even the American classic: Denny&rsquo;s. The breakfasts I get here that try to emulate the classics often include a few items that ruin it all: runny scrambled eggs, a fried egg with a solid yellow part, wierd stringy fatty bacon, lightly scorched bread intended to be toast. If any of these get included on a plate, it ruins it all. And any attempts at a salad should never be put on an American breakfast plate. What I expect are two eggs, over easy, two or three strips of quality bacon, perhaps some hashbrowns, and if I am in the Denny&rsquo;s Grand Slam mood, a couple of pancakes, though I am rarely in that mood. Its a simple breakfast, but it seems impossible to get here.

Please understand, I am not looking for an american breakfast everyday. At home I only had this on one weekend day each week. And its not because I want all food here to be like what I found in the US. I love the variety of food here. Overall, from what I have found, the food here is on par or better than what you find in the US&hellip;perhaps with the exception of Sushi&hellip;not always the freshest fish. So can any of the few Amsterdam-based readers help me out?
