---
path: "/2005/09/26/2005926how-long-did-it-take-to-find-a-home-in-amsterdam-html/" 
date: "2005-09-26T07:36:00+00:00" 
title: How long did it take to find a home in Amsterdam???
tags:
  - amsterdam
  - netherlands

---
<a href="http://silenteloquence.suryaonline.org/">Surya</a>&nbsp;asked me how long it took to find an apartment in Amsterdam. I have often heard that apartments in Amsterdam are scarce. But I think that should be re-phrased to &ldquo;Apartments in x price range are scarce&rdquo;. Amsterdam isn&rsquo;t a cheap place to live. Its about on par with the area of San Francisco I live in now. If you are willing to pay between 1300 and 2000 euros a month, there are plenty of places available. Just prepare yourself for that price, have a job that pays enough and you are set. But for me, I am going back to a time where a significant portion of my salary is going to rent. But I will be living in a sweet place in a fantastic area. A year from now, I will get a cheaper place. If you can&rsquo;t afford it, Utrecht is very nice and a bit cheaper.&nbsp;&nbsp;

OK, so I was asked how long it took. It took me a day. How??? My company set me up with a relocation service:&nbsp;<a href="http://www.partners-in-relocation.nl/">Partners in Relocation</a>. They in turn worked with Ferry at&nbsp;<a href="http://www.hollandhomemanagement.com/">Holland Home Management</a>. Ferry did all the work of taking my requirements and&nbsp;coming up with a list of about 8 places to see. Out of them I saw 2 places I really liked, and one of those is what I ended up taking. That said, I think I would have held off and looked some more if there wasn&rsquo;t some urgency in getting an address so that I could get a SOFI number, and bank account, so that I could get paid by my company without too much hassle. I also have a bunch of other things to think about like movers moving my stuff across an ocean or two. I have heard some horror stories of other rental management companies and was really happy with HHM. Only down side is that they (just like&nbsp;all of their competition)&nbsp;take about one months rent as a commission. Add that to the first months rent, and in my case, two months deposit, and you have to come up with a lot of money to move in&hellip;in my case 4 months rent to move in. But I am glad its over and I am glad I have an address to move to. I can go to the post office to forward my mail. I can do all the things I need to do on arrival in Amsterdam. And I can sleep a bit better too&hellip; And I have a sweet place to move in to this coming&nbsp;Saturday morning!!!
