---
path: "/2007/07/14/2007714the-link-between-monkeys-and-singapore-airlines-html/" 
date: "2007-07-14T02:13:00+00:00" 
title: The link between monkeys and Singapore Airlines
---

There I was on the Singapore Airlines flight from Singapore to Amsterdam two nights ago. Its a 13 hour flight that I mostly got through via a&nbsp;8 hour melatonin-induced sleep. But that still left 5 hours to waste. With the interactive video system I was able to kill some more time. I sped to that good scene in Gladiator where he takes off the helmet and gives Commodus an &#8220;oh shit&#8221; moment. I watched a making of segment on the &#8220;300&#8221;, which was a terrible movie that I watched on the way out to Sydney. But a highlight was on the &#8220;On Demand TV&#8221; channel. They had an episode of &#8220;30 Rock&#8221;. I had never seen this show as it isn&#8217;t on in The Netherlands&#8230;at least I don&#8217;t think it is. I became one of those people I hate on the plane. You know, the guy who laughs out loud for 30 minutes. The guy who can&#8217;t control himself and involves everyone else. Yeah, that was me. Unfortunately, they only had the pilot episode, but last night I was able to load up the first season in my bittorrent client and this morning I started watching. I just watched the second episode and there was a 1 second reference to the clip of a monkey smelling his butt then fainting. A quick search on the net and I found the classic video. Yeah, you know the one. Go ahead and do a Google search for &#8220;monkey smells butt and faints&#8221;. Or&nbsp;<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JhwFQEEeCzw" class="broken_link">just click here</a>. I am on my 15th viewing this morning and still laughing out loud&#8230;
